update toc.md, shard-merge.md, add incremental data migration document (#748)
pingcap/docs-dm: en/usage-scenario-incremental-migration.md

---
title: Incremental Data Migration Scenario
---

# Incremental Data Migration Scenario

> This document describes how to use Data Migration (DM) to synchronize the Binlog at a specified position in the source database to the downstream TiDB. The scenario is based on an example of migrating a data source MySQL instance to TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to use Data Migration (DM) to replicate the Binlog from a specified position in the source database to the downstream TiDB. The scenario is based on an example of migrating a data source MySQL instance to TiDB.
```

## Data source table

Assume the data source instance is:

| Schema | Tables |
|:------|:------|
| user  | information, log |
| store | store_bj, store_tj |
| log   | messages |

## Migration requirements

> Only synchronize the data change at a specified position in the source database `log` to the TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only replicate the data change from a specified position in the source database `log` to the TiDB cluster.
```

## Incremental data migration operations

This section provides you data migration steps, which helps you use DM to synchronize data changes from the `log` database to the TiDB cluster.

### Determines the start position of incremental sync

> First you need to determine the sync position of the binlog where you start to migrate data. If you have determined the position of binlog, skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First you need to determine the position of the binlog where you start to migrate data. If you have determined the position of binlog, skip this step.
```

By following the steps below, you can obtain the position of binlog where you start migrating data in the source data:

> - Use Dumpling/Mydumper for full data exports. Then use other tools, such as TiDB Lightning, for full data imports. By exporting the [metadata files](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%BE%93%E5%87%BA%E6%96%87%E4%BB%B6%E6%A0%BC%E5%BC%8F), you can get the the sync position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have used Dumpling/Mydumper for full data exports and other tools, such as TiDB Lightning, for full data imports. By exporting the [metadata files](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%BE%93%E5%87%BA%E6%96%87%E4%BB%B6%E6%A0%BC%E5%BC%8F), you can get the the sync position.
```

> - Use Dumpling/Mydumper for full data exports. Then use other tools, such as TiDB Lightning, for full data imports. After that, you can obtain the replication position by inspecting the [metadata files](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%BE%93%E5%87%BA%E6%96%87%E4%BB%B6%E6%A0%BC%E5%BC%8F).

Reviewer 2: exports， imports 应该用单数吧

> - Use Dumpling/Mydumper for full data exports. Then use other tools, such as TiDB Lightning, for full data imports. After that, you can  you can obtain the replication position by exporting the [metadata files](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%BE%93%E5%87%BA%E6%96%87%E4%BB%B6%E6%A0%BC%E5%BC%8F).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use Dumpling/Mydumper for full data exports. Then use other tools, such as TiDB Lightning, for full data imports. After that, you can obtain the replication position by inspecting the [metadata files](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%BE%93%E5%87%BA%E6%96%87%E4%BB%B6%E6%A0%BC%E5%BC%8F).
```

  ```file
  Started dump at: 2020-11-10 10:40:19
  SHOW MASTER STATUS:
        Log: mysql-bin.000001
        Pos: 2022
        GTID: 09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9 
  Finished dump at: 2020-11-10 10:40:20
  ```

> - Use `SHOW BINLOG EVENTS`, or use `mysqlbinlog` tool to check binlog and select an appropriate position.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use `SHOW BINLOG EVENTS`, or use the `mysqlbinlog` tool to check binlog and select an appropriate position.
```

- If you want to start synchronizing binlog at the current time, use `SHOW MASTER STATUS` to check the current position:

  ```sql
  MySQL [log]> SHOW MASTER STATUS;
  +------------------+----------+--------------+------------------+------------------------------------------+
  | File             | Position | Binlog_Do_DB | Binlog_Ignore_DB | Executed_Gtid_Set                        |
  +------------------+----------+--------------+------------------+------------------------------------------+
  | mysql-bin.000001 |     2022 |              |                  | 09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9 |
  +------------------+----------+--------------+------------------+------------------------------------------+
  1 row in set (0.000 sec)
  ```

This example starts synchronizing data changes from `binlog position=(mysql-bin.000001, 2022), gtid=09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9`.

### Create tables manually downstream

> Because the table SQL statements are created before sync starting point, this incremental synchronization task does not automatically create tables downstream. So you need to manually create a table schema at the corresponding starting point in the downstream TiDB. The detailed steps are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the table SQL statements are created before starting point, this incremental synchronization task does not automatically create tables downstream. So you need to manually create a table schema at the corresponding starting point in the downstream TiDB. The detailed steps are as follows:
```

not sure it's good to use abbreviation

> Because the table SQL statements are created before sync starting point, this incremental synchronization task does not automatically create tables downstream. So you need to manually create a table schema at the corresponding starting point in the downstream TiDB. The detailed steps are as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
Because the table SQL statements are created before replication starting point, this incremental synchronization task does not automatically create tables downstream. So you need to manually create a table schema at the corresponding starting point in the downstream TiDB. The detailed steps are as follows:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE `messages` (
  `id` int(11) NOT NULL,
  `message` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
)
```

> ### Create sync task

Author: ```suggestion
### Create replication task
```

> ### Create replication task

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create a replication task
```

> 1. Create task configuration `task.yaml` to configure incremental sync mode and sync starting point for each data source. The complete task configuration example is as follows:

Reviewer: ditto

> 1. Create task configuration `task.yaml` to configure incremental sync mode and sync starting point for each data source. The complete task configuration example is as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Create task configuration `task.yaml` to configure incremental replication mode and replication starting point for each data source. The complete task configuration example is as follows:
```

   {{< copyable "yaml" >}}

   ```yaml
   name: task-test # The name of the task. Should be globally unique.
   task-mode: incremental # The mode of the task. For "incremental", only incremental data is migrated.

   ## Configure the access information of TiDB database instance:
   target-database: # Downstream database instance configuration.
     host: "127.0.0.1"
     port: 4000
     user: "root"
     password: "" # If password is not empty, it is recommended to use dmctl encrypted password.

   ## Use block-allow-list to configure tables that require sync:

>    block-allow-list: # The filter rule set of the matched table of the data source database instance. Use black-white-list if the DM version is earlier than v2.0.0-beta.2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   block-allow-list: # The filter rule set of the matched table of the data source database instance. Use black-white-list if the DM version is earlier than or equal to v2.0.0-beta.2.
```

     bw-rule-1: # The name of the block and allow list rule.
       do-dbs: ["log"]# The databases to be migrated.

>    ## (Optional) If incremental data migration requires remigrating data that has already been migrated during full data migration process, you need to enable safe mode to avoid incremental migration errors.

Author: ```suggestion
   ## (Optional) If incremental data migration requires remigrating the data that has already been migrated during full data migration process, you need to enable safe mode to avoid incremental migration errors.
```

>    ## This scenario usually happens when the full migrated data is not a consistent snapshot of the data source. You need to start migrate incremental data at a position before the full data migration starting point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ## This scenario usually happens when the full migrated data is not a consistent snapshot of the data source. You need to start migrating incremental data at a position before the full data migration starting point.
```

   syncers: # The configuration parameters of sync unit.
     global: # The name of the configuration.

>        safe-mode: true # If you set `safe-mode` to `true`, `INSERT`` from data sources is rewritten to `REPLACE` and `UPDATE` is rewritten to `DELETE` and `REPLACE`. This is to ensure that when primary keys or the unique keys exist in table structure, you can re-import DML when migrating data. TiDB DM automatically enables the safe mode within 1 minutes immediately after the incremental replication task is started or resumed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       safe-mode: true # If you set `safe-mode` to `true`, `INSERT`` from data sources is rewritten to `REPLACE` and `UPDATE` is rewritten to `DELETE` and `REPLACE`. This is to ensure that when primary keys or the unique keys exist in table structure, you can re-import DML when migrating data. TiDB DM automatically enables the safe mode within 1 minute immediately after the incremental replication task is started or resumed.
```

>        safe-mode: true # If you set `safe-mode` to `true`, `INSERT`` from data sources is rewritten to `REPLACE` and `UPDATE` is rewritten to `DELETE` and `REPLACE`. This is to ensure that when primary keys or the unique keys exist in table structure, you can re-import DML when migrating data. TiDB DM automatically enables the safe mode within 1 minute immediately after the incremental replication task is started or resumed.

Author: ```suggestion
       safe-mode: true # If you set `safe-mode` to `true`, `INSERT`` from data sources is rewritten to `REPLACE` and `UPDATE` is rewritten to `DELETE` and `REPLACE`. This is to ensure that when primary keys or unique keys exist in table structure, you can re-import DML when migrating data. TiDB DM automatically enables the safe mode within 1 minute immediately after the incremental replication task is started or resumed.
```

   ## Configure the data source
   mysql-instances:
     - source-id: "mysql-01" # The ID of data source. You can obtain it from the configuration of the data source.
       block-allow-list: "bw-rule-1" # To import the block-allow-list configuration above.
       syncer-config-name: "global" # To import the incremental data migration configuration of syncers.

>        meta: # If `task-mode` is `incremental` and the `checkpoint` in downstream database does not exist, `meta` is the starting point of binlog; If `checkpoint` exists, base it on `checkpoint`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       meta: # If `task-mode` is `incremental` and the `checkpoint` in the downstream database does not exist, `meta` is the starting point of binlog; If `checkpoint` exists, base it on `checkpoint`.
```

         binlog-name: "mysql-bin. 00001"
         binlog-pos: 2022
         binlog-gtid: "09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"
   ```

> 2. Create replication task using `start-task` command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create a replication task using `start-task` command:
```

> 2. Create a replication task using `start-task` command:

Author: ```suggestion
2. Create a replication task using the `start-task` command:
```

   {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

   ```bash
   tiup dmctl --master-addr <master-addr> start-task task.yaml
   ```

   ```
   {
       "result": true,
       "msg": "",
       "sources": [
           {
               "result": true,
               "msg": "",
               "source": "mysql-01",
               "worker": "127.0.0.1:8262"
           }
       ]
   }
   ```

> 3. Check replication task using `query-status` command to ensure that no error message exists:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Check the replication task using `query-status` command to ensure that no error message occurs:
```

> 3. Check the replication task using `query-status` command to ensure that no error message occurs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Check the replication task using the `query-status` command to ensure that no error message occurs:
```

                   "result": null,
                   "relayStatus": null
               },
               "subTaskStatus": [
                   {
                       "name": "task-test",
                       "stage": "Running",
                       "unit": "Sync",
                       "result": null,
                       "unresolvedDDLLockID": "",
                       "sync": {
                           "totalEvents": "0",
                           "totalTps": "0",
                           "recentTps": "0",
                           "masterBinlog": "(mysql-bin.000001, 2022)",
                           "masterBinlogGtid": "09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9",
                           "syncerBinlog": "(mysql-bin.000001, 2022)",
                           "syncerBinlogGtid": "",
                           "blockingDDLs": [
                           ],
                           "unresolvedGroups": [
                           ],
                           "synced": true,
                           "binlogType": "remote"
                       }
                   }
               ]
           }
       ]
   }
   ```

## Test replication tasks

> Insert new data in source database:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Insert new data in the source database:
```
